# ArthurArcturus
 Arthur Arcturus 11 days ago Because all matter runs on Existium, the thing-in-itself, and this includes your brain, and you now believe you've got the inside scoop on things, you should not assume that atoms are conscious in the same way as you are. All properties of human consciousness are tied to the mechanics of cognitive anatomy. Your window into the nakedness of existence is blurry because it includes both brain functioning and the thing-in-itself and they are well mixed. But we can separate these. You only perceive colors because the brain thinks you do. You only feel pain because the brain thinks you do. You do not have any awareness of quickmaquack or other hypothetical additional modalities, because the brain has no need for this particular fiction and did not evolve to include it.  Once you strip all attributes of consciousness that brain functioning can explain away, what you are left with is the Hard Problem, why _all that_ feels like something. That's Existium. The Hard Problem, how it Feels, why-something-rather-than-nothing, qualia, these are all names we've given to the direct knowledge of the thing-in-itself, a knowledge we didn't seek, can't avoid having, cannot incorporate anywhere, but also cannot ignore or doubt. Everything is made out of the Hard Problem, or Existium. It is not a physical substance but a metaphysical one. You can only perceive it internally because you are made of it - but in all other cases it would be impossible for you to ever suspect or detect. The right comparison between you and an atom is: Existium causes me to feel something, and causes the atom to be a real one and not a mathematical model. —https://www.youtube.com/post/UgkxhUp81kNbNPbB6Hi14WV-qBuAUQ84JxTn
